title: Session Summaries by Name-of-Contributor
abstract: 
authors:
  student 4
date: 14-10-2024

Weekly summary of the 25th September 2024
My general impression of that lesson are that too many buzzwords are used and sometimes it felt like I was at a product presentation of a software in which I learned next to nothing about said product.
As for the speed, I much rather the professors take their times talking well about their topics rather than try to get through as many points as possible.
I lose any attention and interest when I can’t follow what someone is saying. The classroom’s acoustics also do not help the case because it walls drown the professor’s voice. This led me to miss possible important information.
As for the presentation and introduction into data and metadata, I remember being overwhelmed and misunderstanding the example given about the Philippine Facebook. Having first seen the metadata without any context given, it made me feel ever more lost throughout the lesson.
I suggest not doing this for the first real example about data and metadata since most students are into human sciences and not informatics.
Make people interested in a subject they know nothing about instead of infatuated and lost.
Finally about Tropy, the few we saw about it, looked interesting. Sadly it wasn’t possible to go further into its functionalities because the software looked interesting and actually useful, an impression I did not get with data and metadata even though I constantly use them in my research.


Weekly summary of the 2nd October 2024
This week in class we had the class be split into multiple groups depending on the assignment each student or group wanted to do. My group consisted of Charel, another guy who sat beside me and myself. Our assignment had us reading an article by the BBC about web archives and some initiatives doing web archiving.
The article mostly talked about the Internet archive, a private venture trying to archive as much as possible from the Internet.
It also talked about two separate web archives, these two were government funded but way tinier in scope and focused on specific websites like Twitter for example.
The article itself was interesting but threw various arguments, problematics and example around. It could’ve been more structured but everything else was fine. After we barely touched the subject of discussing the article each of us read on his own, we were kindly obliged to start the presentation phase of the class.
I believe we did fine-ish, except for some rambling due to a lack of time to realistically organise our thoughts about the various questions we had to answer about the article.
As for the other presentations, it was interesting to see that it is easier than I thought to find one self’s digital footprint nowadays, something which another group was tasked to do about themselves and then present the results to the rest of the class.
Generally, I preferred this type of class to the one from the previous week because the active work made me invested in class and didn’t allow me to doze off mentally, which I struggle not to do in more “academic” lectures.

Weekly summary of the 9th October 2024
This week we were supposed to learn about what the Impresso project is, going as far as having to sign an NDA about it.
Ironic considering I have to summarize a course about it whitout saying anything about Impresso, so I'll keep it short: it's next to useless right now from what I've seen.
To continue the trend of irony, later on during the lesson, the students were by accident, I guess, made aware that some of their private information will be made public throughout of this course without of their knowledge or consent.
As for the class itself, once again the professors fell into the terrible habit of explaining things "academically" instead of actually doing it.
to add to this trend, when I asked them about the utility of doing it their way, the non-answer they gave me was, and I paraphrase here: "because later on in the professional world, that's how it goes".
I find pretty strange since I have never, ever used Github to pass on anything in my short careers as a student worker in numerous places. Usually people tend to use Slack, the open source version of Microsoft Teams to pass on documents and/or message colleagues.
Never have I used Github for the purpouses mentionned in class.
On the subject of wrongly showcased information the professor tried explaining some mathematical formula which left me speachless due to me not understanding it and hence failing to see its supposed value. A reoccuring scenario at this point.
As for the "practical" part of the class, the people I worked with all didn't understand the utility of Impresso and barely understood how to use it.
This was made all the more aggravating when the expected results of our tasks were not representative of what Impresso gave back. On the subject of Impresso, I won't go much further into it as I'm afraid I could go against the NDA seeing as this will be made public for the world to see. :)
